you
So many of you have been waiting for that all year long, and it's here.
What has become just our kickoff really into the Christmas season.
It's become tradition around here.
We couldn't go December without Carol the Bells.
Come on, ridiculous.
What happens here?
And we're going to take a hard right turn, though.
And we're going to begin a time of worship together.
And so I want to invite all of you to stand with us.
Wherever you're joining us, we're so glad you're here with us.
But I'm going to kick it off to Jeremy and the team to lead us in this time of worship.
Thanks, everybody.
So thankful for who you are to us, Lord, for the love that you have for us, for the hope that can be found when we put our trust in you, Jesus.
And Jesus, I'm thankful that no matter what we came in here with, where we find ourselves today, thankful that our circumstances don't determine your goodness.
That's just who you are.
reminded of that truth today, that you are good, you are faithful to us in every season.
So Jesus, we give this time to you.
Would you be glorified in this place?
You are worthy of our praise.
You're worthy of all the worship that we could ever give.
We love you.
We pray this all in your powerful name.
Amen.
Everybody, so good to be with you.
You can take a seat.
Well, hey, everybody.
It's truly great to see you join us right here in the room and wherever you might be joining us online.
I'm so glad that you chose to be here with us this weekend.
I don't think there's any better place that you could be.
And I really believe that it's a special weekend that you showed up on number one, because we kicked off our service with Carol the Bells.
And that's always a fun one.
But I also got to say, I wish the guys would make it look a little harder.
They make playing guitar look so easy.
Like, I could go do that.
And I couldn't.
It's awesome.
But the other reason why it's a special weekend is because this weekend, 20 years ago, we opened the doors to the Lionel Lakes campus.
It's absolutely incredible.
Can you believe that?
And I know many of you, you remember that moment.
You remember, this was what Eagle Brook was supposed to be.
This was it.
It was just supposed to be this location.
We shut down the original location in White Bear.
We moved into this building in 2005, thinking this was going to be it.
And within a month, we were at capacity.
And so we had to reopen the White Bear Lake location and became a multi-site church.
Now, 20 years later, we have 14 locations and online, all over Minnesota, all over the world that people are experiencing.
Come on.
And I was recently reading an email from a longtime attender who was here days before the campus was supposed to open, praying for this building, praying for the people that are going to walk through this door.
And here's what he said.
He said, I remember praying, asking God to reach untold hundreds who never knew the Lord before, out in the middle of a cornfield where no one ever expected to see a church.
That prayer for hundreds actually has become over 9,000 people who have put their faith in Christ through an experience at the Lionel Lakes campus alone.
And then beyond that,
We in 2017 launched online church, and so the life-changing message of Jesus has gone beyond these walls, beyond the ways that we could ever imagine or even expect.
And I know that many of you are here because of an experience like that.
And aren't you glad that we worship and serve a God that goes beyond what we think is supposed to be?
Yeah.
And some of you are here after living and wondering, is my life more than my addiction?
Is life more than my diagnosis?
infertility that I'm experiencing, my failed marriage, bad decisions that I've made throughout my lifetime, or just being far from God.
But you've discovered that God has more for your life.
And Ephesians 3.20 says this, now to him who is able to do it measurably more than we can ask or imagine according to his power at work within us, to him be the glory.
And so we are celebrating this weekend of 20 years of faithfulness.
We're celebrating 20 years of God answering prayers and invitations that have gone out of this place and logging obedience in the same direction as we continue to listen to where God's calling us and as you continue to invite people to experience the life changing message of Jesus.
So that's what we're celebrating is we turn the corner to the future and look ahead.
I wonder, is there somebody in your life that needs to know that there's more to their life?
There's more than just what they're experiencing now.
God has more for them than they could ever ask or imagine and you need to invite that person to church.
I want to challenge you to do that over these next few weeks.
I've got a couple of opportunities for that to happen.
The first is for students, middle school and high school students.
We've got the biggest party of the entire year this coming Wednesday across all of our locations.
That if you're in driving distance of one of those, get your middle school, get your high schooler to that party.
Festival of Festiveness is happening.
Middle school and high school are together, 630 to 830, but invite those students.
and get them here.
But the next opportunity is our Christmas services.
In just a week and a half or two weeks, whatever it is, we're starting Christmas services.
Here at the Lionel Lakes campus, we've got seven different moments, different services, and five of those are gonna be broadcast online.
So there's somebody in your life that they'll be able to make it to one of those experiences, or if you send them the link, they'll be able to experience the online experience.
So get them there, invite and let's see what God does and see the more that he has for them.
But this weekend, as we look to hear from Jason and continue our series, all is not calm.
It wouldn't be a celebration or a party without a party favor and a cake.
And so as you leave today, we've got birthday themed flavored dumb dums that you can grab as you leave.
So grab, grab one of those birthday cake, cotton candy, grab one of those as you leave, but also we've got a cake and it's a video cake.
But what I need you to do on the count of three, would you just help me yell happy birthday?
And then we're going to see a video of the recapping the last 20 years of all that God has done.
But let's do this together.
One, two, three.
Happy birthday.
Thanks, everybody.
Jesus said, I will build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.
What a moment.
What a miracle this is.
20 years ago, we opened this building with a simple prayer.
God, would you use this church to reach people far from you?
That was the vision, to be known as a community built on prayer, worship, serving, and loving others.
And from day one, God answered our prayers.
Over 8,000 people came to church that first weekend.
Week after week, people met God through worship, teaching, and the love that they felt when they walked through the door.
Even though Lionel Lakes wasn't our first building, it sparked a new beginning in our mission to reach others.
And it became the home base for our messages each week.
Every inch of this building, from the lobby to the kids' faces to the worship center, was designed to point people to Jesus.
Every story of transformation
is a reminder of God's faithfulness, and there's so much more to come.
As we look into the future, we trust God to lead the way, because God loves people, and this is His church.
Yeah, go ahead.
It is the 20-year anniversary of our Lionel Lake's campus.
And if you're at one of our other campuses or you're relatively new to maybe Eagle Brook, you may not know this, but we started at White Bear Lake.
And then the leadership at that time and the entire church risked everything to build this building.
They risked careers, they risked the future of our church to build this building.
And then by God's power and God's grace, shortly after we opened, it was full.
And so we still owned the White Bear Lake building and we thought, okay, well, what if we just open that as a video venue of sorts?
And that's how multi-site was born.
That's how we kind of stumbled into it.
So if you're at a campus right now, that's where it started.
It's hard with White Bear Lake and Lionel Lakes, but we are celebrating and thanking God for 20 years of ministry in this building.
A few weeks ago, or a few weeks ago, rather, our family visited the Brainer Lakes campus.
And Don Wicklin, who's the campus pastor there, got up.
and shared that Christmas has not always been a happy time for her family.
She talked about a season when her brother passed away tragically, her dad died shortly after that.
And she said that Christmas was this reminder that life had changed.
We're in a series right now called All Is Not Calm.
And we sing that around this season.
We sing, all is calm, all is bright, but maybe in your life, all is not calm and all is not bright.
Our prayer and our hope in this series is that God would use this series to restore our souls and to prepare us to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ.
I was reading a story a few months ago about a couple that had fed their baby Mountain Dew instead of milk.
This is a weird story.
But they confronted the mom about this and they said, how come you kept giving your baby Mountain Dew?
And this was the mom's exact quote.
She said, once the baby tasted Mountain Dew, he didn't want milk anymore.
Now I realize this raises all kinds of questions about parenting and stupidity and maybe all kinds of other questions that you might have.
But I wonder if there is a spiritual analogy in that story that for some of us today, our souls have been feeding on Mountain Dew instead of the spiritual milk that we need for nourishment.
What do I mean by that?
Our brains crave dopamine.
Dopamine is the feel-good chemical, and you can get dopamine from a lot of different things.
I mean, if someone likes your post on social media, you get a shot of dopamine from that.
That's why they've created that function on social media, because it keeps you coming back.
This is why pornography is so addictive.
When we view pornography, maybe without even realizing it, dopamine is released into our brains.
And so your brain starts to go, oh, I'll give me more of that.
But it's never enough, it's more, it's more, it's more.
And the next thing you know, you are addicted to destructive behaviors.
And it's not just pornography that creates that phenomenon.
There's many things that cause us to become addicted to the next dopamine high.
In Ephesians chapter four, verse 19, the Apostle Paul is speaking to people whose hearts have been hardened because of repeated sin in their life.
He says, having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity.
He says, they've lost all sensitivity.
This is like when you go to the dentist and they give you a shot of Novocaine and it's just numb.
You can't feel anything.
There are people in America today who have become desensitized to sin.
They've lost all sensitivity.
It's not like they're sinning and then they're going, oh, I feel guilty about that.
I'm so sorry, God.
They're numb to it.
They're desensitized to it.
Paul says they've given themselves over to sensuality.
Why do they do that?
Because it feels good.
It's a shot of dopamine.
Spiritually speaking, it's Mountain Dew.
But it's not giving them the spiritual milk that their soul needs for nourishment in her book, Soul Care.
Author Deborah Folletta asked this.
She says, when we start feeling even the slightest hint of emptiness, drain and exhaustion, we can be tempted to run to a quick fix.
Something to give us a boost, distract us, or fill us up as fast as possible.
What is that for you?
When you are feeling empty, when you are feeling drained, when you're feeling just a little down and melancholy, what is that thing in your life that you go, oh, I just wanna do that.
I just need some of that.
Might be opening up a certain app and just scrolling.
It might be going back to a destructive relationship.
Might be working more hours and just throwing yourself into your work.
But what do you turn to when you feel drained?
Pastor Timothy Keller,
author and pastor in New York, he once asked this question, he said, all people seek happiness.
And that is very true.
Me, all of us, we all want to be happy in some way.
He said, and they attach themselves to things they believe will make them happy.
So we see something, we think, oh yeah, that's gonna make me happy, I'm gonna attach myself to that, I'm gonna do that, but here's the problem.
He says, the main human problem, however, is that because of sin,
We misidentify what will make us happy.
In other words, we look at something, we go, oh, I'm not doing great right now.
I'm feeling down.
I'm feeling drained right now.
But if I do that, then I'll be happy.
But because of the effects of sin on our hearts and our minds, we misidentify what is going to make us happy.
What is it that you think is going to make you happy?
In Psalm 42, King David asks this question, he says to his own soul.
He's asking his own soul.
He says, why are you cast down, oh my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me?
Strikes me that David was able to identify how his soul was feeling.
And he says, my soul is downcast.
And maybe that's you today.
Maybe all is not calm, all is not bright.
that there's something in your soul that feels down.
I wanna show you three ways that God can restore your soul.
The first one is this, slow down.
Slow down.
I've been studying Psalm 23 for the last month.
If by the way, if you've never memorized Psalm 23, I would encourage you to do this.
My six-year-old daughter has this better memorized than I do.
So she can memorize it.
I can memorize it.
You can memorize it.
It's so deep.
It's so rich.
Here's how King David begins.
He says, the Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me besides still waters.
He restores my soul.
Here's the word I don't want you to miss.
It's the word Lord.
See, we've just tempted to pass over that.
It doesn't seem like really that big of a deal in the scope of the whole sentence, but he says that the Lord is His shepherd.
It's not noteworthy that sheep would have a shepherd.
All sheep do.
In fact, all human beings have something or someone that they're following with their life.
Now, if you've ever thought about this, but even an atheist has someone or something that they follow, oftentimes themselves, but we all have a shepherd.
David says, my shepherd is the Lord God.
And because it's the Lord God, I shall not want.
I want all the time.
You probably want all the time as well because we live in a world of want.
Every day, all around us want.
I want a better body.
I want better health.
I want a better job, better salary, better grades, better relationships.
We live in a world of want and into that world.
King David says, I shall not want.
Why?
Because if he has God, he has everything he needs.
If he has God, there's nothing else that he needs in his life.
Notice what he writes next.
He says, he makes me lie down in green pastures.
The key word here is makes.
God made David lie down.
David grew up as a shepherd, so he would have understood this, but there's this phenomenon with sheep called sheep bloat.
I have to say this very carefully.
Sheep bloat and sheep will just start to eat.
They'll just eat, eat, eat, and they're eating so fast, their digestive system can't keep up.
And when that happens to sheep, they start to bloat.
And so a wise shepherd will notice this and they will come along and they will make the sheep lie down.
Physically grab the sheep and make them lie down.
You need to stop eating.
You need to stop consuming.
You need to rest.
In his book, Gasping for Breath, author and pastor, David Johnson, tells about a time in his life when God made him lie down.
He didn't want to lie down.
He was made to lie down.
He was a pastor of a church.
It was growing like crazy.
Everything seemed to be good on the outside, but on the inside, he was overwhelmed.
On the inside, he was falling apart.
And so his church board made him take a sabbatical.
They made him lie down in green pastures.
Here's what he writes about that experience.
He said, I grew up thinking life works when you work.
No pain, no gain, push harder, do more, keep going, never ever stop.
But now I had to stop.
I was forced to stop.
Not just by the board, but by myself.
I couldn't breathe.
If I didn't figure out a way to recover my breath, I might be stopping for good.
I met with a man one time, a godly man in our church.
And when he was in his 20s, he was kind of a prodigy in the investment world.
Everything he touched seemed to be the right investment to make.
And so he was traveling a lot.
He was working all the time, Monday through Friday.
He told me when he would get to Saturday, he would try to wake up in the morning and he could not get out of bed.
His adrenal glands were so shot, he would lie in bed Saturday and Sunday, and then he would get up Monday and he'd try to do it again.
Finally, his wife came to him and said, enough.
I'm not gonna live like this anymore.
And so he made a decision that saved his marriage and saved his soul.
He went to his boss and he said, I quit.
Ended up starting his own business.
Today, he's happily married.
His business made more money than he was making for this other company.
And most importantly, he has his soul back.
Do you want to lie down or do you want to get knocked down?
Do you want to slow down or do you want to fall down?
Notice that God did not make David lie down because he was punishing David.
He made David lie down because that was how he could restore his soul.
Maybe you're in a season right now where God has made you lie down.
It's been a health issue.
You've lost something and so you don't have that in your life anymore.
Maybe part of the purpose that God has in your life is to restore your soul.
Here's the second way that God can restore your soul.
Get on the right path.
Here's what he says right after he says, he restores my soul.
Here's what David writes next.
He said, he God leads me in paths of righteousness.
What path are you on right now?
Because we're all on one.
We all have a direction that our life is headed.
If you were to describe to me the path that you're on in life, I could predictably say, here's where I think you're gonna be in 10 or 20 years.
But here's the really good news.
You can get on a different path.
If you don't like the path that you're on right now, if it's not the path of righteousness, any moment you want, you can say, God, I want to get on a different path.
And God in His mercy and grace can lead you to a different path in life.
David says that God led Him to the path of righteousness.
Wasn't so much that He got on the path of righteousness, it's that God led Him to it.
I've been a pastor for over 25 years, and during that time, here's what I've discovered.
Sin harms our soul.
Sin harms our soul almost more than anything else.
But here's what we do.
We tend to think, oh, I can hide it.
My parents aren't gonna find out.
I mean, I got this whole thing figured out.
My boss is not gonna find out.
My neighbor, my friends, they will not find out.
And guess what?
Oftentimes, you're right.
We're right.
They don't find out.
But here's what we underestimate.
Sin changes us.
Oftentimes, ever so slightly.
And you know this is true because I guarantee you, you can think of someone that you remember going, you know what?
What's different about them?
They seem to be changing.
I don't really know what it is.
And then years later, months later, you found out, oh, they were doing that.
They thought they were hiding it from you and you didn't know exactly what was going on, but you could see the effects of sin in their life.
You could feel that.
Are you on the path of righteousness right now?
Maybe you've been wandering from the path of righteousness.
Maybe you're in a dating relationship and it's pulling you off the path of righteousness.
Maybe you have some friends in your life that you hang out with and they are pulling you off the path of righteousness.
Two degrees of divergence today can lead up to a mile of distance in the future.
Are you on the path of righteousness?
Are you on the path that you want to be on?
I had a deer hit my car.
Yes, that's what happened.
He hit me.
I did not hit him.
I was driving along Lexington with my daughter, and my daughter yelled out,
And I looked, and on the side of the road, there was this huge buck, I mean, just large deer, which cracked me up, because it was hunting season.
And all you hunters were up in Eley.
Freezing your butt off, walking around in the woods, Elmer Fudd, looking for this big old deer, and he's mocking you.
He's standing on the corner of Lexington.
So my daughter yelled out, deer, and I kind of slowed down.
I moved into the left lane.
And the deer, I kind of saw him turn to go back into the cornfield and there was a car coming on a two lane in the opposite direction.
And so I came back into my lane and boom, he smashed into the back of my car, just ran straight into it.
If you look at my car right now, there's still deer hair in the passenger's door on the back.
There's a huge dent underneath the window.
And so I yelled out, what was that guy thinking?
Which my daughter thought was funny, because she's like, he's a deer.
And so she googled deer brains.
And she said, dad, a deer has the brain of a one year old, okay?
Just so you know what that guy was doing.
And I was like, well, go figure, right?
Makes sense to me.
But what did that deer do?
He took the wrong path.
Standing on the side of the road, he looked across the road and there was something there that he just had to have.
There's something there that he thought, you know what, I can't wait for traffic to go by, I gotta have it now, and I'm gonna be fine.
I own big, strong deer.
I think everything's gonna go work out just great.
And he took the wrong path.
You and I don't have the brain of a one-year-old, but the Bible says that we are like sheep.
And I hate to break it to you, but sheep aren't all that smart.
And so here's what we do, we go, I gotta have it.
I have to have that now.
That's going to make me so happy in my life.
We take the wrong path and we crash.
We crash a marriage.
We crash a future.
We crash our integrity, our good name, our reputation, a ministry that God has given to us.
We crash.
I'll hear people today use the phrase self care or your self care routine.
And self-care is great, but let me just tell you, a bubble bath and candles is not going to take care of your deepest self.
A new skincare routine and moisturizer is not going to take care of your deepest self.
If you want self-care, get on the path of righteousness.
Get on the right path with God.
Here's the third way that God can restore our souls and it's to be still.
Here's what David writes.
He, God leads me besides still waters.
He restores my soul.
A little bit later in Psalm 46, it says, be still and know that I am God.
I sat on my deck this summer and I started thinking through the attributes of God.
He's holy.
He's slow to anger.
He's quick to love.
He's everywhere, all at once.
I started thinking through every attribute of God and I was still.
And I just knew that he was God.
Elsewhere in the Psalms, David is able to articulate how his soul is feeling.
He says, my soul finds rest in God alone.
My soul is in deep anguish.
He writes, then my soul will rejoice in the Lord.
And then a little later, he says, my soul is full of trouble.
I am a man without strength.
There's no pill for that.
If your soul is full of trouble right now, if you feel like you have no strength, there's no pill for that.
You have to be still and know that he is God.
In 2018, there was a text alert that went out over the entire state of Hawaii that said a missile was en route to Hawaii and that people needed to take cover.
You can imagine if you got this text message, people were panicking, people were calling loved ones, other people were calling friends they hadn't talked to in years, just because they wanted to ask them for forgiveness.
They wanted to reconcile the relationship.
People were praying and getting right with God and thinking about their eternity.
And then 38 minutes later, another text message came out over the entire state of Hawaii and it said, false alarm.
Oops.
Can you imagine being the guy who made the mistake looking at the radar?
Oh, you know what?
That wasn't a missile.
It was a goose.
Yeah, it was just hard to tell, you know, sorry.
Made a little mistake there, no big deal.
Like, whoa, that's kind of a big deal.
But for 38 minutes, the important became the urgent.
For 38 minutes, people's souls started to come alive.
A person can get right with God.
A person's soul can begin to come alive in 38 minutes.
In his book, it all goes back in the box.
Author John Orberg writes this.
He said, when Nancy and I got married, I asked her which household chore she most disliked.
Her response was immediate, cleaning the bathrooms.
John said, well, I'll take that off your plate.
You'll never have to worry about that one.
And he writes, she hasn't.
In over 30 years of marriage, she's never cleaned the bathrooms.
I haven't either.
They're a mess.
But at least we have more time.
Now, this brings up an important point.
Stuff needs to get done.
I mean, I'm sure we would all just love to sit around and be still and know that he's God.
But somebody's got to pick the kids up at school.
Somebody's gotta go to Costco and get some food.
Somebody's gotta bring the car in and get an oil change.
We would love to just be still and know that he's God, but we have a life to live.
When I was in college, I read a book by a monk named Brother Lawrence.
It was called Practicing the Presence of God.
And Brother Lawrence worked at this monastery as a dishwasher.
He'd wash dishes, dry dishes.
He would do this every day, not a real glamorous job.
Here's what he writes in his book.
He said, in the noise and clutter of my kitchen, while several persons are at the same time calling for different things, I possess God in His great of tranquility as if I were upon my knees at the last supper."
Some of you are reading that like, what is he even talking about?
He's a monk, so come some slack.
But here's what he's saying.
He's saying, when I'm in the kitchen doing the dishes,
And there's people coming into the kitchen all the time and they're, you know, I'm gonna need some french fries and this person's upsetting us.
It's like an episode of The Bear.
I mean, it's just like, there's all kinds of conversation and things going on.
He says, it's all of that's happening.
I'm doing dishes and I'm praying.
And I feel so close to God that it's almost as if I am sitting next to Jesus at the last supper.
First Thessalonians, chapter five.
says, pray without ceasing.
Now, I don't pray without ceasing.
You might think as a pastor, I'm just walking through the day, you know, I'm just praying at all times.
Sometimes I'll be staring off into space and someone will be like, what are you doing?
And just kind of kittingly, I'll be like, oh, I was praying.
But I'm actually really thinking about, should the twins trade Byron Buxton?
Should they call up Walker Jenkins?
Like these are the kind of things rolling through my head.
So I'm not praying without ceasing in that sense.
But I don't think that's what Paul means.
What Paul is saying is, pray throughout your day.
You can pray in the car as you're going to pick the kids up.
You can pray before you go into that meeting.
You can pray as you're walking through Costco, maybe not out loud, but you can pray.
You can pray as you're waiting for your oil to change.
You can pray throughout your day.
I was listening to a podcast and the speaker was talking about Tim Keller, who I quoted earlier, a pastor from New York.
And he was talking about how Tim Keller has kind of based his daily routine around three things.
morning, afternoon, and evening prayer.
Every day, that was his routine.
He would wake up in the morning.
He would spend time with God.
He would read the Bible.
He would pray.
And then at lunch, he would go take a walk around his neighborhood and just pray.
And before bed, he would pause and you would say, God, thank you for this day.
And I've tried to do the same thing.
I wake up in the morning.
I pray.
I read my Bible.
It's the first thing I do.
And then I've started to come home from work, and I'll make a coffee.
Now, those of you that know me, I had never drank coffee in my life until this July.
I'm 47 years old.
My taste buds were more wired to nerd clusters, sweet tart ropes, cotton candy.
Then I was just kind of how my sweet butt, that's how I was wired.
I finally started drinking coffee.
I think I'm an adult.
I think I became an adult at the age of 47.
But I'll make a coffee and I'll just spend some time reading a chapter of a Christian book.
It's been so good to decompress after the work day before I kind of engage with my kids.
And then I always forget to do this.
But before bed, I want to take a moment and say, God, thank you for today.
Here's what I'm grateful for.
What are the soul-carrying habits that you have built into your day?
What are the soul-carrying habits that you have built into your week?
Church is a soul-carrying habit.
They did a study at Harvard University.
Yes, that Harvard.
And they found that people who regularly go to church, 29% less likely to be depressed
50% less likely to be divorced, five times less likely to take their own life, and 33% less likely to die early or prematurely.
They did a study of kids.
They found that kids that regularly go to church when they're a kid, when they grow up, tend to be more forgiving
have more purpose in life, have more joy and volunteer more and serve other people.
That's the good news.
The bad news is that when they ask people, do you regularly go to church and they say, yes, what they mean is generally I go to church once or twice a month.
That when someone says, why I love that church, I go to that church, what they really mean is I'm actually going once maybe twice a month.
I want you to think back on those statistics for just a moment.
If you watch the Vikings, are you 29% less likely to be depressed?
You're 29% more likely to be depressed, okay?
I mean, I'll talk to people like, oh, I missed church, the Vikings game is on.
It's like, how'd that go for you, huh?
You feel good this afternoon?
You feel really filled up from that?
I mean, think about those statistics for kids.
Is there anything that you could take them to do on the weekend that statistically speaking would lead to them in the future having more purpose, more joy, and serving other people?
There is nothing that you could do on the weekend, statistically speaking, that would lead to those kind of attributes in the future.
Here's the point.
People with sole care habits built into their life, they flourish.
They flourish.
I want to take you back to Psalm 23.
David says, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
There's two words I want to point out to you.
The first one is through.
You might be in a dark valley right now.
You might feel like you're in a really dark place in your life.
And I want to remind you that God's going to take you through it.
This isn't the destination.
This isn't where you're staying.
God is going to take you through that valley.
I was grabbing lunch just this week, and I've been to this restaurant enough to where I knew the woman who was serving.
And so I said, hey, how have you been?
And she said, well, I actually just went through a divorce a couple months ago.
And it sounds like her husband was unfaithful.
And she said, but I bought a study Bible.
And I've been reading it.
And her five-year-old's been reading the Bible and coming to church, and she looked at me and she said, I think we're doing pretty good.
And I read this verse to her, that even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I said, God's gonna take you through this.
The season that you're in right now, this dark place that you're in, it's not the destination.
God's gonna bring you through it, that the God who led you to the valley is gonna lead you through the valley.
The second word I wanted to point out to you was the word walk.
When my kids were little, we had a basement and it wasn't totally finished and the kids would play down there during the day and they'd love it.
There's a lot of space to run around and play.
But at night, if I said to one of the kids, hey, you need to run downstairs and can you grab this for me?
Well, they sprint.
They sprint downstairs because it was dark and it was scary and they would get down there and get out as quick as they possibly could.
If you're in a dark place in life right now,
I want you to know that God is with you.
You see, if I said to my kids, hey, I'll go with you.
And I grabbed their hand.
We didn't sprint down the basement.
We would walk down the basement.
And if you're in a dark place in life right now, God is with you.
Grab onto his hand.
You don't need to sprint.
You don't need to fear.
You can walk.
But the God who led you to that valley is going to lead you through that valley.
You can walk through this valley because he is with you.
I want to close today by inviting you to take his hand.
If you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ before, if you've been living your life just trying to fill up on Mountain Dew and all the things of this world, and you've just been misidentifying what's going to make you happy, I just want you to know when you put your faith in Jesus Christ,
The Bible says when you confess with your lips and believe in your heart, you will be saved.
You can't restore your soul without surrendering it to the one who created your soul.
And so if you pray this prayer with me, would you take a moment after church to text the word begin to the number you see on the screen?
Because we wanna know you.
We wanna walk with you.
We wanna help you get to know who Jesus is.
Let's pray together.
Lord, there might be someone here in church today who has never had a moment in their life where they've said, God, I surrender myself to you.
I make you the Lord and Savior of my life.
And God, maybe there's been chasing so many things and wanting so many other things and none of it satisfies.
God, would you restore their soul?
Would you restore their soul to yourself?
God, they're gonna pray this prayer with me in the quietness of their mind.
Lord, I confess my sins to you.
I turn from them.
I believe that Jesus Christ died on the cross to pay for my sins, to pay the penalty I could not pay.
And so right now in this moment, God, I put my faith and my trust in Him.
I ask that He would be the Lord and the shepherd of my life.
And I receive the gift of eternal life.
Lord, there might be others of us who are walking through a valley.
And in some cases, it might be a very dark valley.
God, would you take their hand?
Would you remind them that they're not staying, that they're walking through it?
And that God with you at their side, they don't need to run, they can
Lord, would you restore our souls in the craziness and busyness of this season?
God, would you lead us besides still waters?
And would you God restore our soul?
We pray all this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Next week, we're gonna talk about Sabbath, which is really interesting topic.
We will see you then.